Whatsup is cluster node up/down detection utility. Working in
conjunction with Ganglia and a master list of cluster machine names,
whatsup can quickly calculate and output the up and down nodes of a
cluster.

This package includes:

* libnodeupdown
  - A C library to determine up or down nodes in a cluster.  See
    libnodeupdown(3)

* Libnodeupdown.pm
  - A Perl module developed with Perl Extensions that takes advantage
    of the already available C library.  Perl extensions is limited
    and provides an unorthodox Perl API.  It is therefore recommended
    most users use Nodeupdown.pm.  See Libnodeupdown(3).

* Nodeupdown.pm
  - A Perl module that interfaces with Libnodeupdown.pm, hiding away
    the ugliness of Libnodeupdown.pm.  See Nodeupdown(3).

* whatsup
  - A command that outputs the up and down nodes in a cluster. See
    whatsup(1).

When dealing with up and down nodes in a cluster, there is a
deficiency in ganglia that requires use of a master list of cluster
machines as a work around.  Ganglia can report nodes as down only if
it has had previous communication with the node.  For example, suppose
a node from your cluster was removed for servicing, then the node
running a non-deaf ganglia daemon is rebooted.  After the reboot, the
node that was removed for servicing will not be listed by ganglia as
down since it has no prior knowledge of that machine's existence.

A master list of cluster machines can be input several ways.
Currently the following master list mechanisms are supported.  The one
you choose for your system must be selected by selecting one of the
following options in configure.

* Hosts file (--with-hostsfile)
  - This mechanism uses a file that lists the shortened hostname of
    every node in the cluster, one per line.  Comments can be placed
    in the file using a pound sign ('#') at the beginning of a line.
    Configure can be used to specify a default location of this
    file.  If no default is chosen, the nodeupdown library and whatsup
    will assume /etc/nodeupdown_hostsfile.conf is the default file.
    If a default file is not put in the default location, nodeupdown
    and whatsup will always require the file location to be specified.
    Please read the README.hostsfile_install file for installation
    instructions.

* Genders (--with-genders)
  - Uses a genders database and the genders library to determine all 
    of the nodes in the cluster.  Please read the
    README.genders_install file for installation instructions.

* Gendersllnl (--with-gendersllnl)
  - In addition to genders, uses the gendersllnl library to convert
    between node names and alternate node names.  For the most part,
    this is used in house at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
    and sister labs that have clusters and genders setup in a
    particular way that we like.  I have high doubts anyone else will
    ever use this option.

* None (--with-nomasterlist)
  - Whatsup and nodeupdown will only use ganglia data to determine the
    difference between up nodes, down nodes, and nodes in the cluster.
    This is not recommended.

If none of the above is specified during configure time, configure
will select a master list mechanism based on the libraries found on
the build machine.  

Other mechanisms may be implemented in the future.  If you are interested
in seeing some new mechanism implemented, feel free to e-mail me and I'll
see what I can do.

Comments, patches, fixes, suggestions are always welcome.  Please read
DISCLAIMER and COPYING for copyright and license information.

Albert Chu
chu11@llnl.gov
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
